[Security][9.4 & Serverless][RBAC] Ability to grant access to alerts (#5538)
elastic/docs-content: solutions/security/detect-and-alert/detections-privileges.md

Learn about the access requirements for detection features, including:

- **Privilege requirements**: Cluster, index, and {{kib}} privileges that your role needs to enable detections, manage rules, view and edit alerts, and more
- **Predefined {{serverless-full}} roles**: {{serverless-short}} roles with detection privileges
- **Authorization model**: How rules inherit privileges from their last editor using API keys

For instructions on turning on the detections feature, refer to [Turn on detections](/solutions/security/detect-and-alert/turn-on-detections.md).

:::{important}
Rules run in the background using the privileges of the user who last edited them. Ensure that only users with the appropriate access edit them. Refer to [](/solutions/security/detect-and-alert/detection-rule-concepts.md#rule-authorization-concept) for more details.
:::

::::{note} Independent alerts and rules access

> You can give a role access to alerts only, rules only, or both, whichever fits your needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can give a role access to alerts only, rules only, or both, depending on your needs.
```
